If you're currently preparing for
strategy consulting case interviews and
you are feeling a little bit lost, maybe
you've done some googling online and
you've seen a bunch of different
resources talking about all these
different kinds of frameworks that you
need to memorize. Maybe you have friends
who are prepping who think that certain
frameworks are better than others, but
honestly, you're just not really sure
where to even begin, then this video is
for you. Hi, if you're new to the
channel, my name is Matt. I'm currently
working in strategy and ops at Google.
Before that, I was a management
consultant at BCG and I make these
videos because I enjoy it, but I also
want to help you out. But with that
said, let's get into the video. So, the
first thing I want to talk about is what
even is a framework? And you probably
have a vague sense of what a framework
is if you've started down this path of
preparing for case interviews. And so,
you might think to yourself that a
framework is a list of questions or
maybe a way to structure a problem
solving approach. And both of those are
absolutely correct. But I think it's
important to understand uh not just what
a framework is, but why they're even
used in case interviews in the first
place. And so the first place that I
want to start is why frameworks, right?
Because there are all sorts of jobs out
there that require people to be problem
solvers. But why in consulting
specifically do we find that you're
being tested on frameworks in pretty
much every single case interview? And
there's a few reasons here that I want
to talk about. It's definitely not all
of the reasons, but some of the more
important ones. And the first one is
structured thinking. You're being tested
on whether or not you can think in a
organized way. And that might sound
simple to you, but you'd be surprised at
just how many people have very cluttered
thinking and aren't really able to
articulate a step-by-step approach to
how they would solve a certain problem.
And so structured thinking is really
really important on the job because as a
consultant your job is basically to be
like a professional problem solver. And
so that is why the framework is so
important. Kind of tied to that is
problem solving because in order to
develop a framework you have to have at
least an inkling of an idea of how you
want to go about solving the problem or
at least getting to the bottom of it and
understanding what the underlying cause
of an issue is with a business. And so
that's the second big bucket. But I
would argue that the third and most
important reason why frameworks are
tested in consulting interviews is
because you're basically going to be
using frameworks every day on the job.
Every single deck that I ever worked on
when I was at BCG included at least one
framework, if not multiple frameworks.
And if you talk to any former consultant
or a current consultant, they will tell
you that there is always at least one
page in the deck probably in the
beginning where there's a framework and
it lays out the way that we want to
evaluate the business or the way that we
think about the landscape that this
company is operating in and it lays out
the key buckets that are most important
to consider when trying to get to a
recommendation or a solution. You can
think of your framework as the
foundation of a house. And there's many
different ways to build the foundation
of the house. But obviously, if you have
a more stable, more architecturally
sound framework or foundation for your
house, then when you actually go and you
try to fill in, you know, the windows,
the doors, the walls, the roof,
everything, then your house is not going
to fall apart after you do all that
work. And so the same thing is happening
here when you try to come up with a
framework. There isn't necessarily a
right or wrong framework, but there are
better ones and there are worse ones.
And so now I want to move to the second
part here, which is once we've
understood why frameworks are being
tested, well, what's the problem then,
right? It seems pretty straightforward.
It's a list of key areas that we want to
consider as we try to figure out the
problem and then eventually come up with
a solution. And the reason that I think
most people are scared or at least
intimidated by these frameworks is one,
like I mentioned before, there's not
really a quote unquote right answer. And
a lot of the case books that you'll find
out there will have a quote unquote
recommended solution. But in reality,
technically, someone could use a
different framework for the exact same
case and probably still pass the case.
And so the solution in the case book is
more just like a suggestion and not
necessarily like a black and white yes
or no, this is correct kind of answer.
And I think that throws a lot of people
off because when you're in school and
when you're a student, especially if
you're in a STEM field or you're taking
a lot of quantitative classes, then
you're probably used to multiple choice
yes or no, true, false, or
equation-based mathematical answers
where there is a single right answer.
But that is just not the case here. And
so honestly, I would argue that it's
closer to like liberal arts classes
where you write an essay. And there's no
one right essay that's going to get you
a hundred, but there are certainly
better essays and worse essays, right?
It's more of a spectrum. And I would say
that frameworks are similar to
that. But as a result, that basically
throws off a lot of people and makes
people a little bit nervous because
they're not really sure if they're
getting the quote unquote right answer
or not. The second thing is that there's
so much information out there online
about frameworks. Now, I'm in the
consulting prep space and even I will
tell you that the space is super
saturated and there's a ton of content
already out there. If you just do a
single Google search, you see a bunch of
stuff pop up. And so, the issue is not
really that there's a lack of
information. It's more that there is too
much information and not enough guidance
on the 8020 or the 20% of the of the
content that actually moves the needle
and gets you the offer. And so a lot of
people even if they study a lot of
frameworks, there's just too many
different kinds and they don't know
which ones to apply in different
situations and they feel just
overwhelmed by all this. But this brings
me to the heart of this video, which is
where I want to try and give you a very
simple way to approach frameworks so
that you don't feel overwhelmed in the
case interview and you can still
demonstrate to the interviewer that you
know what you're doing and that you can
think in a structured way, you're a good
problem solver, and that you're
considering all of the important things
to think about. And so jumping right
into it, the first thing that you need
to remember is at the end of the day in
a case interview scenario where you only
have about 90 seconds to come up with a
framework, you usually want to have
between two to four buckets max. Now,
why do I say this? Well, obviously you
can't just have one bucket because
that's not a framework. So, you need at
least two. But anything more than four
buckets, in my experience, is too many.
It's going to be too complicated. It's
probably not going to be me. And you're
probably going to spend too much time or
run out of time before you can fill out
all of the buckets. And so stick to this
rule. Two to four buckets max. Ideally,
three buckets, but honestly, for certain
frameworks, two buckets works just as
well. So keep that in mind. Keep it
simple. Remember that this is not rocket
science. And these case interviews,
they're really just a simplified
business problem that you're trying to
discuss live with another person. Beyond
that, don't overthink it. It's not that
deep. And so, you want to have your two
to four buckets and you want to aim to
be mei.
Now, when I say aim to be mei, the
reason why I'm saying that is because
sometimes you just can't be completely
mei or you're going to have frameworks
where it's not 100% mutually exclusive
and collectively exhaustive. Now, if you
don't know what MII means, quick
explanation. Mutually exclusive and
collectively exhaustive is a common term
that gets referenced when people are
explaining frameworks because you in an
ideal world want your framework to be
mutually exclusive, which means that the
buckets in your framework don't overlap.
But also you want all of the buckets to
be collectively exhaustive, meaning that
you are covering the entire universe of
possibilities and you're not forgetting
anything that might be important to the
case. And so I would argue that being
MEI is an important guiding principle
when you're developing your frameworks.
But don't get so anchored on that one
thing that you're like, "Oh shoot, I
can't use this framework even though it
has really good buckets because it's not
completely 100% me." Don't be that
person. Now obviously in order to be me
there are easier ways to do that than
others and I'm going to give you two
very simple ways to be me. One is what
are known as equation frameworks and the
other is what are known as process
frameworks. So equation frameworks are
exactly what they sound like. The most
common equation framework that you've
probably heard of is the profitability
framework which is when you have two
buckets. One of them is revenue and the
other one is costs.
And so basically you look at everything
that's inside of revenue and impacts
revenue and you look at things that
impact costs. And so you have your price
and your quantity here and you have your
variable and your fixed costs down here.
And so P * Q gives you revenue. Variable
plus fixed cost gives you your total
costs. Boom. There is your framework.
It's MEI. It covers the entire universe
of possibilities because everything that
you can think of will either influence
the revenue or it will influence the
costs for the company. Now the other
option which I just mentioned are these
process frameworks where essentially you
are going to create buckets based on the
time that it takes to go from say if
it's a manufacturing business the time
that it takes to go from raw materials
all the way to finished product that
gets sold to the customer. And so if
you're a manufacturing business, then
maybe your framework would look like
gathering or buying raw materials,
bucket one. Then transportation to the
factories, bucket two. Then
manufacturing inside of the factories,
bucket three. And then distribution to
retailers, bucket four. And then bucket
five would be sell to customers. And
customer uses the goods. Boom. See how
we went from start all the way to
finish. Well, that basically covers the
entire life cycle of the business
basically producing the good to selling
the good to the customer and obviously
collecting the cash from that. And
process frameworks don't just apply to a
manufacturing business. You can
basically apply them to anything out
there. It doesn't even have to be a
business scenario. If someone asked me,
hey, what are the key considerations
that I need to think about when
preparing for a Thanksgiving dinner?
Then you can literally make up a
framework where you say, "Hey, so step
one is gathering the supplies for my
Thanksgiving dinner. I need to make sure
that I have the shopping list prepared.
I need to make sure that I go to the
stores before all the turkeys get sold
out. I need to make sure that I have
planned properly and made sure that uh,
you know, I have a guest list, for
example, so I know how many people are
coming, things like that. And then after
the preparation phase, the second bucket
is the on the day of the actual
Thanksgiving dinner, I need to prepare
all the food. I need to get everything
ready. Logistically, I need to figure
things out. That's bucket two. And then
bucket three is actually once the people
come to my house, then how do I execute
a successful Thanksgiving dinner? Well,
maybe I need to make sure that the food
comes out on time. Maybe I need to make
sure that my guests are entertained.
Maybe I need to make sure that I bring
the dessert out before people fall
asleep from food comas because they ate
so much of the Thanksgiving dinner. I
don't know. Just making up things here.
But you see the point. Basically, these
processed firmics are really useful
because they can be applied to any
situation. And when you do them right,
they cover the entire universe of
possibilities, making it MEI. So, gave
you two very useful ways that you can
try to be MEI. Process frameworks and
equation frameworks. Now I want to move
to this third principle now which is
look once you've got your two to four
buckets and you've made sure that it's
as messy as possible then you want to
make sure that you follow the principle
of generic buckets but specific bullets.
What do I mean by that? Well, generic
buckets are like revenue, costs, price,
quantity, or things like product,
customer, competition, company, things
like that. Super high level where you're
not being super specific, but where you
really want to show the interviewer that
you are thinking at maybe a deeper level
is you want to be specific in your
bullets. And so an example of this if we
move over here is say I have a
profitability framework and I have
revenue and costs right super generic
buckets but once I get to the next level
price quantity fixed and variable costs
I want to be more specific and I don't
want to just be like price and quantity
are what I want to be looking at in
under revenue and fixed and variable
costs are what I want to be looking at
under costs. You don't want to just stop
there because that is just showing the
interviewer that you're not being super
thoughtful and you're literally just
regurgitating probably an an equation
that you read in a textbook or that you
heard from your friend. And so if for
example this case was about I don't know
let's just go with a manufacturing
business again then we would want to
think about questions related to that.
And so under price, we could ask
ourselves questions like, hey, what is
the historical pricing for this product,
right? Has it been historically priced
less, higher? If so, why? Is it due to
inflation? Is it due to other things?
This is like super small and I don't
know if you can see it, but maybe maybe
another question that we could try to be
more specific with under price has to do
with our competitors. So maybe what is
competition pricing things at and where
do we sit in relation to our
competitors? Are we considered a premium
product or are we considered discount or
are we kind of just in line with the
market? And you want to be really
specific. So if this company is in Asia
for example, we want to say how does our
pricing compare to competitors in Asia?
But also how does our pricing compare in
general? Not just in Asia but outside of
Asia. So maybe compared to South America
for example, you want to be asking
questions drawing on the context of the
case which is going to be given to you
in the beginning right when the
interviewer reads out the prompt to you
and asks you for clarifying questions.
You want to make sure that you're really
thinking about these things and applying
that context to the framework so that
you don't have just super generic
buckets and super generic subbuckets.
You know, it's okay to have generic
buckets, but you want more specific
contextualized secondary buckets. uh
which show that you're actually thinking
about the specific company that this
case is about. And so continuing along
here under quantity, you might want to
ask things about volume, right? So you
might want to say, you know, how are
historical volumes trending for the
company? Are they going up? Are they
going down? And what are the drivers of
that volume? Does it have anything to do
with, you know, certain macroeconomic
conditions in Asia? or again even what
our competitors are doing which may
influence volumes, things like that. And
then moving down to the cost section,
again, you don't just want to say fixed
versus variable, but you want to be
specific, right? You want to talk about
certain fixed costs, like how does our
capex look? If we're a manufacturing
business, do we own the factories that
we're producing out of or are we just
leasing them from another party? You
really want to show that you're thinking
and trying to get to the bottom of this
and get really detailed. Now, if you're
able to do that and you're able to also
tie in your own personal experience or
knowledge of things that are happening
in the news or things that historically,
you know, have happened in business or
with certain companies in that industry,
then that's even better because a way to
differentiate yourself with the
framework section is to not just talk in
a theoretical sense about what you would
look at in the company, but to tie it
to, oh yeah, I know that from my
knowledge of the news, news that
currently inflation in Asia is really
high and so I would anticipate that
prices would also be trending up
compared to historical. Now I'm just
making all this up but you get the idea.
What I'm trying to do is I'm trying to
show the interviewer that I didn't just
read this revenue and cost framework
from a textbook or I didn't just get it
from some consulting blog and blindly
apply it to this case. No, I took that
and I tried to adapt it specifically to
this case. And if you can do that, then
honestly, you're already 90% of the way
there. Because again, there is no right
or wrong framework to use in a case.
There are easier ones and better ones
that you can use. But nine times out of
10, what I find is for most cases, you
can apply like a small set of two to
three frameworks to 90% of cases,
especially if they're all related to
forprofit businesses. And so another
great example is the CPCC framework or
sometimes you'll see the three C's
framework but essentially this framework
is where you look at the customer you
look at the product you look at the
company itself and then you look at the
competition. Now some of you might be
looking at this and being like is this
actually MEI? And I would argue that
this framework is probably not as
clearly NEI as the one above it.
However, it's also a very effective
framework that works with 90% of cases
because it often covers the key areas
that matter for a for-profit business.
For example, who their customer is for
any business. That is one of the most
important things to think about. What
the product is for any business. Again,
that is their bread and butter. You have
to understand their product to
understand the business.
understanding the company itself. I
think this points more towards their own
capabilities and the state of the
company right now. This just helps us to
make sure that we're not forgetting
anything else about the company because
even though the product and the customer
are critically important, understanding
the company itself and its current
situation is critical. And then finally,
competition in consulting. This is one
of the most important things that you
will look at as a consultant when you're
uh on a project and you're trying to
evaluate your client's position in the
market. You're going to look at who the
competition is and you're going to try
to understand the market that the
company operates in, how competitive
that market is and whether or not
there's room for growth there. And so
you can see that even though this
framework is not clearly MEI because
it's not a process framework and it's
not a equation framework, it's still a
really good framework to bring to an
interview. And again, if you make the
sub bullets really specific and
contextualize it, then I guarantee that
the interviewer will be quite happy with
this framework just as much as the other
one. And so don't get tied up on this
idea that you have to be 100% Macy. Use
it as a guiding principle, not as a hard
rule. What's more important here is that
you show the interviewer that you are
thinking thoughtfully about this
framework. You know what the important
things to consider are you're bringing
in outside knowledge from your own
experience or from what you've seen
before into this framework so that it's
unique. And again, it's not going to be
the exact same as the last guy or girl
who maybe just ripped the framework out
of Victor Chang's book and is just
applying the exact same buckets to the
case. Because remember, these
interviewers, they're probably casing
multiple people every day. And over the
course of a few weeks, they're going to
very quickly see patterns between
different people that are using the
frame same frameworks. And a lot of
people are using the same prep
materials. though realistically they're
going to end up using the same
frameworks as well. And the way that you
make it unique to you though is that you
show them your thoughtful through the
specificity of your bullets and the
individual nuggets and bits of
information that you bring in from your
own experience and own learnings. Now,
I've said a lot about why frameworks
matter, why people are scared of them,
how you can honestly just cut through
the noise and create frameworks that
your interviewer is actually going to be
happy with. And then I've given you a
few examples. But the last thing I want
to talk about here is that the delivery
of your framework is also very, very
important. It's not just about the
content that you have in your framework.
It's also about once you've taken your
90 seconds or maybe your two minutes to
come up with your different buckets, how
do you deliver it in the interview
scenario? And the best way to do it is
you want to be concise and you want to
be structured. Now, how do you do that?
Well, you basically start by saying
something like, "Okay, awesome. So, I've
had some time to think about the key
considerations uh to this case." And
broadly speaking, there are four main
buckets that I would want to learn a
little bit more about in order to
understand a little bit better what
might be the root cause of the problem.
And then eventually how we might be able
to come up with a solution to the case.
The first is the company, the second is
the competition, the third is the
product, and the fourth is the customer.
Now with the first bucket, I'd be most
interested in X, Y, and Z. And then our
second bucket X, Y, and Z. third,
fourth, repeat. You get the idea. The
goal here is again, don't ramble, but
speak in a way that shows that you're
being structured and makes it clear to
the interviewer what the different
buckets you want to look into are. And
practically speaking, how you can
prepare to do this well is I recommend
leading up to the case, say you have
your interview in a couple weeks. Well,
every day leading up to your interview,
you should do what is known as case
starts. And you should do one case start
every day. This is when you open up a
case book and you flip to a random case.
And at the beginning of your day,
ideally, when your brain is fresh, you
take 10 to 15 minutes to read the case
prompt. And then you time yourself. You
spend a minute, two minutes coming up
with a framework. And then you deliver
the framework. and then you stop. You
don't do the rest of the case. So, you
only spend about 10 to 15 minutes every
day preparing your frameworks. But if
you do this every day, soon you'll get
really, really good at coming up with
frameworks with time pressure. And
you'll also get really good at
delivering the frameworks as well. Now,
don't forget, you should definitely try
to record yourself when you do deliver
the framework because that is going to
give you the fastest feedback when it
comes to how you're actually presenting
yourself in the interview. And trust me,
if you're cringing when you film
yourself and you listen back and you
hear how your voice sounds and maybe you
don't like how you speak, then that's
actually a good thing because you need
that feedback because think about it, a
stranger is going to see that video or
essentially they're going to see you in
person if you're doing an in-person
interview and that is what they're going
to hear. And so you want to make sure
that you're recording yourself to get
that feedback, but also you want to get
feedback on the content of the framework
itself. And so this is where if you have
friends or if you have mentors or people
that you'veorked with who are
consultants that can help you and give
you feedback on your framework, that'll
be really really critically important.
But if you don't have that, then
honestly, you can even use something
like chat GPT and throw the framework in
there and ask it if the framework is
structured or how it might structure the
framework better. Because what I found
is that some of these AI tools are
actually quite useful for structuring
ambiguous problems. And so honestly, if
you do everything that I've just talked
about today and you stick to it for more
than just a couple days, then you're
going to find that you'll improve so
much quicker at your frameworks and
you're not going to feel so overwhelmed
when you go into a case interview and
you're not really sure if you have the
right answer or not. With that being
said, that's all I got for you guys. If
you have any questions, drop them below
and I will see you in the next one.
Peace.